Now that we're all experts on server
components, let's talk about the number
one feature in Next.js, and then we'll
write some code, is basically the routing.
So I have some notes here that kinda talk
about routing but we can go over this, so
I'm just gonna open my editor and we're
just going to start working on our app.
So I think the first thing we wanna do is,
before we get in there and
get busy with the routing,
let's just get everything set up,
that way we can start
actually working on this app.
So what I'm going to do is I'm
just gonna make it a repo here.
Let me see, actually, one of the best ways
to get started is to use create-react-app.
The problem with that, though, is that
I just wanna be locked into a certain
version, I'm sorry,
not create-react-app, create-next-app.
The problem with that, though, is I wanna
be locked into a certain version with this
course going forward to make
sure it's backwards compatible.
So just keeping that in mind if you're
following along, whatever version we
download what create-react-app.dev, that's
the version you wanna make sure you have
going forward, otherwise future
versions might break this course.
But anyway, I'm just gonna type npx.
If you don't know what npx is, it actually
comes installed with Node, it's basically
a way for you to run global CLIs
without having to download those CLIs.
So npx and then create-next-app like this.
I'm just gonna say @latest,
which is gonna give me the latest.
We'll see what version
that resolves to and
that's the version you're
gonna make sure you have.
If you're taking this course,
after this recording,
make sure you have this version,
we'll talk about it.
And then I can put
an optional folder name here,
I'll just say intro-v3-app,
and I'll do that.
And then now it's gonna give you this
prompt of different configurations you
wanna use, so asking me to use TypeScript,
I'm going to say yes, I love TypeScript.
ESLint, for sure, Tailwind, yes.
Source directory, so by default, Next.js
works on the root of this directory.
If you wanna put all that into a folder
called source, you can do that,
I'm gonna say no.
Use the App Router,
we'll talk about the App Router, but
yes, definitely use the App Router.
Would you like to customize
the default import aliases?
Don't worry about that right now,
I'd say no.
And then it's just gonna
install everything.
>> So is Tailwind kinda
becoming the standard of using?
>> I hate to say it, but yeah.
And the reason I hate to say it is-
>> Also in inline styling, it's-
>> Yeah, I know.
The reason I hate to say it is cuz I
personally just don't like writing tons of
CSS classes, all of my components, and for
the longest I just did not understand or
like to.
And I didn't know why people use it, I'm
like, I don't get it, I would just rather
just use a component library, I don't
know, that already has styled components,
and then just edit those styles
with inline styling that I need.
But I've gotten to this point where I've
realized I was doing more editing of
component libraries to fit the style that
I need, and it was probably faster for me
to start with components that didn't have
any style and add the style that I needed.
So then I found myself writing my own CSS,
and then I was like,
well, I don't wanna write my own CSS,
this is gross,
there's gotta be a CSS library out there,
and then it was Tailwind.
But even then I still didn't stick to it,
I think what changed my mind
is I had the wrong idea of it.
I thought Tailwind was just a CSS
library like a Bootstrap, but
in reality, it's a JavaScript library
that generates CSS dynamically.
And that was when I was like,
wait, this is really powerful.
So that plus me learning about headless
components, which are components that have
functionality but no styling associated
with it, kinda solved my problem.
So I can get the functionality of these
components that look like crap and
then just add Tailwind to it and
it was great.
So yeah, I would say it's pretty much
the standard at this point if you
like this style of styling.
Obviously, there's other different types
of styling, we'll talk about some of them,
but if you like using CSS classes,
it's basically free.
So you just gotta learn Tailwind, right?
But they do do a good job of making
sure the class names match the property
names in CSS so it's almost intuitive, so
you kinda get the hang of it really quick.
Let's just go check out what we got, so
I'm gonna open this up
in my VS Code editor.
I got a lot of things going on there.
Actually, let me cd into it first.
How about that?
So intro-v3, what do I call it?
App, and I'm gonna open this.
So we get a lot of things here, but
the first thing I wanna check out is
just everything that got installed.
So if you head to the package.json,
which if you don't know,
is just the file that keeps track of all
of our dependencies in our Node project,
and we can take a look at the dependencies
in the field here and see a few things.
The most important one
is that we see next.
So next itself is a dependency
in which we download, and
you can see that we resolve to 13.4.5.
So if you are following along,
if you're watching this later and
you have troubles with any errors,
it's probably cuz you did the latest
command and got a different version.
So what you can do is you can just say,
instead of what we did,
which was @latest,
you can just do @13.4.5.
Just to make sure you have the exact same
version that we're using right now since
it might be a later version in the future.
So you do that, hit Enter,
you'll pretty much get the same thing.
So we have that, you can see that
we opted in for the esLint things.
So we have all the linting stuff, we get
some types set up because we asked for
TypeScript.
Autoprefixer, which is pretty
much needed by Tailwind,
postcss also needed by Tailwind.
Because Next.js sits on top of React,
we get all the React goodies,
Tailwind itself, and then because I opted
in for TypeScript, I get TypeScript.
We also get a few commands here.
So we get a dev command which we'll be
using to develop with locally, gives us
fast refresh, hot reload, a server to
serve, all the really cool things.
The build and
start command is for production,
this is where we'll build the actual app
and then we can start it in production.
You almost will never use this locally
unless you're testing to see if it works
in production.
And then lint command does exactly
what you think it does, it lints.
And I'm gonna ignore the linter today, so
red squigglies give you anxiety, you're
about to have a lot of anxiety today cuz-
>> [LAUGH]
>> [LAUGH] I'm pretty much
gonna ignore it.
[LAUGH] So yeah, and then yeah,
everything else is pretty standard.
And you can see it also set up the
configurations for a lot of these things.
So it set up the postcss.config,
it set up the tailwind.config with our
paths to our app already configured,
some custom stuff here for their initial
app that you'll see in a minute.
If you opted in for TypeScript,
you can see TypeScript is already set up.
We got some alias paths, all that good
stuff, so pretty much good to go.
We also have this next.config,
we'll talk about that, but
the most important one to
look at is this app folder.
So this app folder, if you remember, there
was an option when I did create-next-app,
it was like,
do you wanna use the App Router or no?
It was yes or no, and I said you
should probably pick yes on this.
This is the new version of
Next.js that I was talking about.
Right, like if we head over to
the Next.js documentation here,
I'm gonna blow this up.
You can see here on the side there's
a dropdown for Pages Router and
App Router, right?
We are using the App Router.
This is what's new in 13, and we'll talk
about that in literally just a second,
but this is what we wanna opt in to.
And the way that reflects in the repo
is that there is a folder called app.
You actually have to have a folder
called app in order to opt into this.
So yeah, and then once you look in here,
you'll see a couple things,
something called a page,
something called a layout.
If you've never seen a TSX file, that's
just the TypeScript version of a JSX file.
That's all it is, it's nothing crazy.
So if you know JSX in JavaScript,
then you know how to use TSX,
because it's the same thing but
TypeScript, which like I said,
I probably won't be
using any types at all.
Have a CSS file and then a favicon.
So the next thing I wanna
do is I want to start this.
So to start this, like I said,
we're gonna use the dev command.
So we can just say npm run
dev to run that dev script.
And you'll see that it's going to start
it on a port, it tried to use 3000,
in my case, I already have something
running on 3000, so it went to 3001.
I can just Cmd+Click on this and
open it up.
And you should see something like this.
So this is the stock Next.js scaffold
app that they give you out the gate.
Everyone should see the same thing, unless
they changed it in a later version and
you're looking at this later and
it doesn't look like this, but this is
what you get by default on this version.
And yeah, it's pretty cool, and
everything here just kinda links
to their documentation so you can check
it out, but it's a great starting point.
One last thing I'm gonna do is I'm
gonna make a new file on the root,
call it .prettierrc.
And the reason I'm doing this is
because I wanna be able to hit Save and
have everything be auto formatted
with esLint and prettier, and
prettier won't work unless you have
a prettier configuration on your route.
And I also like to have my single quotes,
I hate double quotes,
and I also don't like semicolons,
so I'm turning those off.
You don't have to have this, this is only
because my VS Code is looking for this.
My prettier esLint plugins inside my VS
Code is looking for this file in order for
it to work.
Yours might be set up differently,
so you can add it,
it won't change the functionality or
anything on your app.
Just allows me to get
formatting when I hit Save,
which is something that I cannot
live without at this point.